Office of Economic Development - Economic Development | seattle.gov
Reimagining the heart of our city
We are creating a new vision for the future of Downtown as the economic engine of Seattle. Building a thriving, lively neighborhood that serves all.
Transform Downtown with us
Speak to a Business Advocate
Learn about Business Districts
Find Consulting Services
Meet our Workforce Partners
[The Office of Economic Development] helped us source funding that enabled us to open this space.
— Kristi Brown, chef and owner, Communion Restaurant and Bar
There were a lot of things I didn’t know as a new business. The Accounting and Business Consulting Program helped me grow as a businessperson. Without it, I don’t think this would happen.
— Paul Nguyen, co-owner, Hyson Boba
Downtown Activation Plan
We are reimagining Downtown Seattle. See our progress toward the Downtown Activation Plan.
Visit Seattle Restored Pop-Ups
We pair small business owners and creatives with vacant storefronts for pop-ups and art installations.
Food Business Handbook
Start your restaurant, mobile food or catering business. Find City, county, state, and federal requirements.
This program supports small businesses impacted by vandalism and property damage.
Seattle's economic landscape
$1.4M in federal funds distributed to small businesses for repairs
Storefront Repair Fund
has helped 700 local businesses recover from economic impacts caused by damage to their storefronts.
$6.9M distributed to help build BIPOC community wealth
Capital Access Program
has supported 295 qualifying Seattle businesses by paying down part of their Flex Fund loan principal.
in Maritime, Manufacturing, and Logistics
Over $33 billion in annual revenue in the
maritime, manufacturing, and logistics industry
supported 116,200 jobs and generated $10.7 billion in wages.
largest construction market in U.S.
The number of available jobs in
Seattle's construction industry
is above national average (1,220 monthly postings) for an area this size.
From the Bottom Line Blog
Beto Yarce begins as acting director for the Seattle Office of Economic Development
SEATTLE – Mayor Katie B. Wilson appointed Beto Yarce as the next director for the Seattle Office of Economic Development. Yarce began his new post Wed...
Funding to upgrade your small business equipment available
Small businesses looking for financial support to upgrade their spaces can now apply for the Tenant Improvement Program. We have two packages availabl...
One glass at a time: ABC Program helps WeRise Wines build connections with underrepresented winemakers
Jamila Conley opened WeRise Wines with a vision: highlight wines from diverse and underrepresented winemakers. The idea was inspired by a dinner party...
Follow us on social media
View this profile on Instagram
) • Instagram photos and videos
Related City departments
Finance and Administrative Services
This customer-focused department assists with paying utilities, reporting potholes, getting public information, and adopting pets.
Seattle Department of Construction and Inspections
This department issues permits for land use, construction, trade, housing inspections, code compliance, and rental regulations.
Department of Neighborhoods
This department offers resources and opportunities to help community members strengthen communities and improve quality of life.
Seattle Office of Arts and Culture
This office manages public art, ARTS at King St. Station, the Langston Hughes Performing Arts Institute, and The Creative Advantage.
Seattle Public Utilities
This department provides sewer, drainage, and waste collection services to support public health, sustainability, and economic growth.
Office of Planning and Community Development
This office assesses community needs, prioritizes resources, and creates a shared vision for Seattle's growth.
Boards and Commissions
Citizens can apply to join the Seattle Film Commission, Music Commission, or one of over 70 other boards and commissions.
Office of Labor Standards
This office ensures fair wages, equity, and safe workplaces while supporting workers, businesses, and the economy.
Beto Yarce, Acting Director
700 5th Ave, Suite 5752, Seattle, WA, 98104
PO Box 94708, Seattle, WA, 98124-4708
Sign Up for Latest Updates
City Holidays and Closures
Departments & Offices
Small Business Support
Downtown Activation Plan Dashboard
Our core purpose is leading projects and making investments that open up access to economic opportunities, reduce the racial wealth gap, and encourage innovation and growth.