Street Food Carts or Trucks - SDCI | seattle.gov
Street Food Carts or Trucks
Construction Permit - Establishing Use
You can sell food from a street food truck or a trailer on private property under certain conditions. You may or may not need a permit from us depending on the circumstances. Learn more about
street-food vending in Seattle
, including regulations, permits, and licenses required by other agencies.
Property owners should consult with the
Department of Public Health-Seattle and King County
to understand requirements related to overnight or permanent operations.
What Permits Do You Need?
You don’t need a construction or use permit to sell food on private property if you:
Are located in a non-residential zone
Have permission from the owner of the property
Don’t stay there overnight
Park in an area used for parking
Are located at least 50 feet from any residentially-zoned property
Intermittent temporary use permits.
allows you to operate for two days a week in zones where it might otherwise not be allowed. You can ask a planner, using our
, to help you determine if your project might need a temporary intermittent use permit.
Temporary Use Permits
Temporary Structure or Temporary Occupancy Permits
Permanent use permits.
This permit allows you to sell food in a specific location on private property, which requires a
construction permit to establish use
Street use vending permits.
See the Seattle Department of Transportation’s
Street Use Vending Permits
page to determine what other permits you may need.
You may also need to apply for
electrical service changes or new services
from Seattle City Light.
Read the Seattle Municipal Code (SMC) section on general use provisions,
Should You Hire a Professional?
You may prepare your plans yourself or hire a professional to help you.
Construction and Inspections
Sam Steele, Interim Director
700 5th Ave, Suite 2000, Seattle, WA, 98104
P.O. Box 34019, Seattle, WA, 98124-4019
Violation Complaint Line:
Sign Up for Latest Updates
City Holidays and Closures
Departments & Offices
SDCI issues land use, construction, and trade permits, conducts construction and housing-related inspections, ensures compliance with our codes, and regulates rental rules. SDCI is committed to an antiracist workplace and to addressing racism through our work in the community.