New Businesses - SDCI | seattle.gov
Property & Building Use
A new business is a commercial organization, such as a new restaurant, shop, or office, located in a building or space that it didn't previously occupy. A new business may require several different kinds of permits. If you're opening a
, different rules apply.
Opening a Business Location
Commercial Space Permit Coaching
Small businesses or cultural organizations opening a new location in Seattle may qualify for free permit coaching and expedited permitting. We can help with:
Research and early permit coaching
Research locations for the most current permit information
Develop a strategy for the fastest and easiest permitting options
Provide expertise to help you avoid costly requirements that could increase construction expenses or permit complexity
Review permit application materials to make sure they’re complete
Expedited permitting services
Get your permit application reviewed quickly
Reduce the timeline for issuing a construction permit
Have a single point of contact for the permit applicant
Small Business Permit Coaching
What Permits Do You Need?
You may need one or more of the permits below to open a business. You may also need a
construction permit to establish use
if your new business is a different type of business than the former business — for example, if Jack’s Café is moving into what used to be Jill’s Diner, that wouldn’t inherently need any permit. You may need a permit to open your new business even if you are not planning to remodel the space.
the status of recent permits or complaints
property and permit history
Research our permit records
construction subject-to-field-inspection permit
if you will be remodeling your space but not changing its use — for example, you want to open a restaurant in a space that last held a restaurant.
If you don’t qualify for a subject-to-field-inspection construction permit, you will need a
construction addition / alteration permit
Getting a Small Business Use & Construction Permit from SDCI
In addition to construction permits, you may need:
Changes in electrical services or new service
, from Seattle City Light
, which is issued by Public Health - Seattle & King County
(for heating, ventilation, air conditioning, or a commercial range hood)
Public Health - Seattle & King County
approval (for any new or remodeled restaurant)
Below are a few common rules that apply to your new business. Most often, we consider your:
Land use zone and use.
Make sure we allow your business’ use (such as a bar or nail salon) in your building’s land use zone. If we do not allow your use, your project may not be feasible or you may need to get a
land use administrative conditional use permit
If you are changing the use of the space, we may require more parking, review by the City’s landmark or special district boards, or
If you expect to change the use of your space we may require you to make some safety and strength improvements to the building, such as additional exits, sprinklers, and strengthening for earthquakes. An example of a change of occupancy would be opening a day care in an space that was previously an office.
If you are remodeling the space or changing its use, our building code may require that you make your business more accessible to people with disabilities. You may need to remodel restrooms and building entrances, for example.
These are just a few examples of the rules that you may need to follow. Please consult a professional or contact us through our
for coaching if you have questions. If you're opening a restaurant, the
Office of Economic Development Restaurants
website is a helpful one-stop resource.
Seattle Building Code
Seattle Existing Building Code
Seattle Building Code Requirements for Existing Buildings that Undergo Substantial Alterations
Getting a Small Business Use & Construction Permit from SDCI
Should You Hire a Professional?
If you need help understanding our land use and building codes and determining which requirements apply, hire an architect or other building professional. We require a professional to stamp drawings to indicate they were created by a licensed architect or engineer when:
Your work is structural and the building is not built with conventional wood framing
Your work is structural, the building is built with conventional wood framing, and costs more than $75,000
Your work is not structural and costs more than $75,000, excluding electrical and mechanical work, fixtures, equipment, and finishes
If we do not require a professional stamp, anyone with drafting skills may prepare the drawings. However, we recommend you hire a professional to prepare your drawings. A professional makes sure your project meets building and land use code requirements, which can speed up our review of your plans and get you a permit more quickly. Professional stamp requirements are described in the Seattle Building Code, section 106.5.2.
SBC Chapter 1, Administration
Construction and Inspections
Sam Steele, Interim Director
700 5th Ave, Suite 2000, Seattle, WA, 98104
P.O. Box 34019, Seattle, WA, 98124-4019
Violation Complaint Line:
Sign Up for Latest Updates
City Holidays and Closures
Departments & Offices
SDCI issues land use, construction, and trade permits, conducts construction and housing-related inspections, ensures compliance with our codes, and regulates rental rules. SDCI is committed to an antiracist workplace and to addressing racism through our work in the community.